<h1><a href="https://thirsty-noyce-5fcb37.netlify.app/">Books Claw Machine Interactive Page</a></h1>
<p>
For this assignment I wanted to do a claw machine because besides using user-driven interaction I was interested in implementing and handling svg on my page.
  <br><br>I have started from making a drawing on illustrator, where it took me a while to choose colors because I like going for pink / orange / peachy color palette but I also wanted for it to visually communicate the festival / amusement park vibes. So, I have settled on making big objects pink / orange and other smaller ones varying in color. I didn't have issues with moving the illustration to the page, because I was already aware of this procedure from the communications lab class (organizing and naming layers, export as svg, paste into html). I was assuming that the illustation will fit into the page ideally, but I was naive thinking so. It took me quite some time to figure out the two lines of code in css that can fix the issue and as a bonus make the illustration somewhat responsive. 
  <br><br>Now, the other challenge that I was facing for a few days was making individual layers interactive. I assume that it wouldn't take me that long if I had an idea how to search it up on google properly (a skill to have). The idea was to make the claw object move by x axis on click of left and right buttons, and move by y axis on click of grab button. I ended up doing it using (transform, translate(positionX,positionY)) in the javascript. So, as a result, on button click a relevant position value would be updated. For this movement to look more smooth, I have defined a transition value for the both parts of the claw in the css. 
  <br><br>When designing the illustration, I took into account the fact that making more than a few books possible for pick up by user would make it complicated for me to code. So, I have limited the number of pick-up-able books to 3. They are conviniently place at the same height, so that in case of the win, the claw would go lower than in case of the loss. I have planned on making the claw "close" when it catches the book by making a hidden layer of illustration visible. I ended up not making it, because hidden layers are not marked in the svg code (didn't know about that). I have added an alert window popup for the scenarios of loss and win. Since the popup emerges right after the claw goes down, I feel like the closing of the claw is not as needed. Loss and win are determined by the updated positionX value. There are only 5 values of positionX at which a user would win. I have also made the page renew on the click of the 'okay' button of the alert popup, because I wanted the claw to come back to its starting position each time they attempt grabbing the book (so a user is given only one chance).
  <br><br>At this point everything worked, but nothing on the page was much encoraging of or pointing at the fact that it's not a full page illustration, but rather an interactive "game". For that reason, I have added the sounds for button clicks, and audios that would signify the loss and the win. I am not that great at handling audio objects, which is why they are just plainly added to html and then played on click in javascript.
  <br><br>I think that this webpage has a lot of potential and I would love to contribute to it in my next homework assignment if given the opportunity. I would focus on making the experience more interactive and intuitive. In the current version of my webpage I assume that the visitor knows the rules of the "game" and can guess from the visual clues present what to do. However, as I add more functions to the page, and make it more complicated, I believe that I would be required to add a note with instructions for the user. So far I have this small list of ideas for the further additions to the page:
  <ul>
    <li>Game audio playing from the load of the page</li>
    <li>Timer</li>
    <li>Score</li>
  </ul>
</p>
